Creating a set of blueprints for the construction of a house requires that the
architect consider each individual detail, but he must also ensure that
everything harmonizes with the overall design. What about the design of life?
Do we also see evidence of careful planning and an overall harmony between
living things? Our world is filled with marvels of creation. Each wonderfully
unique. Yet, as we have considered, all living organisms have something
fundamental in common. Our DNA blueprint. From these incredibly tiny molecules
come all the complexity and diversity of life, but even beyond the physical
appearance, behaviors, abilities, and instincts of individual organisms, DNA
spells out the potential for amazing interactions between different creations.
The more we observe the natural world around us, the more we begin to see an
underlying harmony emerging from the design of life. For example, many flowering
plants produce nectar, which serves as a food for insects and other animals. But
the benefit is not one-sided. As bees drink nectar from a flower, they're
dusted with tiny grains of pollen and carry these to other flowers of the same
kind. Many flowering plants and trees depend on this pollination to reproduce.
Yes, by wonderful design, bees, plants, animals, and humans all benefit from
this relationship. Hidden beneath the soil, we find another beneficial
relationship between plants and fungus. Since they are unable to produce their
own food, certain fungi infect the roots of plants and absorb carbohydrates from
their host. But instead of being harmful, the fungus can actually help the
plant. The filaments of the fungus provide a much greater surface area to
absorb minerals and water, which are shared with the plant. Additionally, the
fungus can extend into soil that is inaccessible to the roots of the plant.
With this assistance, the plant is able to take in more nutrients from the soil,
grow faster, and better tolerate extreme conditions. Virtually all plants
benefit from this type of helpful relationship with fungus. In the depths of
the oceans, we find more alliances between different kinds of creatures. Some
very unexpected. Groups of large fish gather in areas where smaller, cleaner
fish assist them by removing dead skin and parasites from the visitors.
Under other circumstances, the larger fish might eat the smaller ones. But at
these cleaning stations, the large fish allow themselves to be attended to. Most
fish avoid the stinging tentacles of the sea anemone. But the clown fish makes a
home right in among them. A special coating on its skin protects the clown
fish from being stung. In this way, the clown fish is safe from predators. In
return, the clown fish may share food with the anemone and provide protection
against anemone eating fish. Elsewhere, a goby fish and a shrimp live together
in the shrimp's burrow. To protect its nearly blind host, the goby stands guard
and taps the shrimp with its tail to warn of danger. These are just a few
examples of the interconnections we see all around us when we look more closely
at the natural world. How do these instinctively wise creatures know to form
partnerships with others so different from themselves? Somehow, the potential
for these relationships is recorded within the DNA of each one. Yes, life is not
just a random collection of individual creations, but rather a marvelously
orchestrated masterpiece of design. Each living thing plays its part in perfect
harmony with others around it. Joining together in the magnificent symphony of
life to learn more about creation is to gaze and wonder at design and
engineering far superior to anything mankind has devised. It is to catch a glimpse
of the mind of the master designer, Jehovah God. You are worthy Jehovah to receive
the glory and the honor and the power because you created all things.